Numerical modeling of groundwater using MODFLOW became a state-of-the-art method to understand groundwater flow and act in
sustainable management of limited available groundwater for both quality and quantity. This study aims to evaluate the major
aquifers of the Mirsharai-Sitakunda region using a GMS interface based on MODFLOW-NWT groundwater flow modeling software.
Different aquifer piezometric head and precipitation data were obtained from Hydroinformatics and Flood Forecasting Circle,
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB). The geological model developed from geophysical and geological borelog data available
in published literature is used to build the steady-state flow model. The boundary conditions are implemented to get practical
results by applying real/field conditions obtained from local production well surveys and questionnaires to corroborate with the
secondary data. A steady-state approach is applied to calibrate the model parameters, including the hydraulic conductivity and
recharge rate, using the observed data collected from BWDB. For model performance evaluation, mean error (ME), mean absolute
error (MAE), and root mean square error (RMSE) were calculated. The initial ME, MAE and RMSE of the steady-state model was
calculated -12.38, 12.38 and 12.48 respectively which represents a significant deviation between the computed and observed
hydraulic head showing subpar condition. After PEST calibration the ME, MAE and RMSE of the model was calculated -1.79, 1.79,
2.50 repectively showing an optimum condition representing a satisfactory performance and well in agreement with the observed
data. However, further calibration and converting the steady-state model into a transient model is necessary for scenario
simulation and further study, such as abstraction, recharge, land use, and climate change scenarios. In addition, the results
can assist water authorities in providing accurate and sustainable planning and management of groundwater resources in the
Mirsharai-Sitakunda region.
